## WALKTHROUGHS

# Galactic Greetings

## Briefing

Before jumping into the walkthrough, let's check the challenge briefing to confirm what we need to do for this challenge.

To summarise, we've found a strange signal in deep space and we're
trying to make sense of it. We think the message is encoded in Binary.

## Solution

If we take a look around the challenge, the only thing we can really
interact with is the "analyse signal" button. We're trying to make sense
 of this signal, so this seems like a good place to start - let's click
it!

In doing so, after a brief analysis we're given some Binary data. The
 briefing tells us that the message is encoded in Binary, so this makes
sense.

To retrieve the message we'll need to find a way to decode this
Binary data. We could try to do this manually, but we can save a lot of
time finding for an online tool to help us - try searching online for
something like "binary decoding tool".

Once we've found one, if we decode the data provided we can see some
plain text; a question: What is twelve minus eight plus one?

If we try to submit our answer - 5 - in the 'Reply' section, we're
given an error message which tells us we need to reply using the same
format as the original output, so Binary. Here we can use the previous
tool, or another one, to encode our answer in binary.

Once encoded, we can submit the answer as our 'Reply' to receive the flag and complete the challenge.

## Real-world Uses

Binary data has many uses throughout computer systems. Here we can
see how ASCII characters can be encoded in Binary, for transmission or
storage, before being decoded back into the original ASCII plaintext.
This often happens behind the scenes in software and apps we use every
day.

Encoding and decoding Binary data manually, however, would be quite
slow and tedious! Luckily there are a wealth of tools available for us
to use to automate our task and save a bunch of time. This is often the
case across all kinds of challenges we face in cybersecurity and IT - be
 sure to look for existing tools that can help with common tasks,
leaving our time and knowledge for the big issues!

[← Previous: 8.02.02 - First Contact](https://play.cyberstart.com/field-manual/811b38a6-0e88-11ec-82a8-0242ac130003)
[Next: 8.02.04 - Rover Rodeo →](https://play.cyberstart.com/field-manual/789ab952-ade9-11ed-afa1-0242ac120002)
